[Magic WAN] Added traffic steering and tunnel & encapsulation info (#3956)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: content/magic-wan/about/traffic-steering.md

---
pcx-content-type: concept
title: Traffic steering

> weight: 

Reviewer: If you're leaving this blank, I'd recommend deleting it completely because that's what a DA recommended to me.

Author: Fixed

---

# Traffic steering

> Magic WAN uses a static configuration to route traffic through [Anycast tunnels](/magic-wan/about/tunnels-and-encapsulation/) from Cloudflare’s edge to your network and from your network to CLoudflare's edge.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Magic WAN uses a static configuration to route traffic through [Anycast tunnels](/magic-wan/about/tunnels-and-encapsulation/) from Cloudflare’s edge to your network and from your network to Cloudflare's edge.
```

<details>
<summary>
  Failover traffic flow: Scenario 1
</summary>
  <div class="special-class" markdown="1">

![ECMP diagram of unhealthy Tunnel 2](/magic-transit/static/mt-traffic-steering-ecmp-failure-1.png)

</div>
</details>

When Magic WAN determines that GRE Tunnel 1 is unhealthy as well, that route is also de-prioritized, leaving GRE Tunnel 3 as the top priority route. In that case, all traffic flows to GRE Tunnel 3.

<details>
<summary>
  Failover traffic flow: Scenario 2
</summary>
  <div class="special-class" markdown="1">

![ECMP diagram of unhealthy Tunnels 1 and 2](/magic-transit/static/mt-traffic-steering-ecmp-failure-2.png)

</div>
</details>

When Magic WAN determines that Tunnels 1 and 2 are healthy again, it re-prioritizes those routes, and traffic flow returns to normal.

## ECMP and bandwidth utilization

Because ECMP is probabilistic, the algorithm routes roughly the same number of flows through each tunnel. However it does _not_ consider the amount of traffic already sent through a tunnel when deciding where to route the next packet.

> For example, consider a scenario with many very low-bandwidth TCP connections and one very high-bandwidth TCP connection. Packets for the high-bandwidth connection have the same hash and thus use the same tunnel. As a result, that tunnel utilizes greater bandwidth than the others.

Reviewer: I would change "that tunnel" in the last sentence to the specific tunnel you are talking about to make it easily understandable for reader.
```suggestion
For example, consider a scenario with many very low-bandwidth TCP connections and one very high-bandwidth TCP connection. Packets for the high-bandwidth connection have the same hash and thus use the same tunnel. As a result, the high-bandwidth connection tunnel utilizes greater bandwidth than the others.
```

{{<Aside type="note" header="Note">}}

> Magic WAN supports a "weight" field that you can apply to a tunnel so that a specified percentage of traffic uses that tunnel rather than other equal-cost tunnels.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Magic WAN supports a weight field that you can apply to a tunnel so that a specified percentage of traffic uses that tunnel rather than other equal-cost tunnels.
```

I'd bold or backtick this instead of "" per style guide.

For example, in a scenario where you want to route 70% of your traffic through ISP A and 30% through ISP B, you can use the weight field to help achieve that.

> Keep in mind that because ECMP balances flows probabilistically, the use of weights is only approximate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Not that because ECMP balances flows probabilistically, the use of weights is only approximate.
```

> For more on Magic WAN tunnel weights, contact your Cloudflare customer service manager.

Reviewer: not CF account team?

Author: Fixed!
